okay let's now move on to the next
segment of language modeling we're going
to discuss the pole
smoothing so smoothing is important when
the vocabulary size is very large and
the training data is relatively small so
for example in a typical application it
may have a vocabulary size of about 1
million words so if we want to estimate
the frequencies of unique grams in the
training data set we have to have many
millions of words to estimate each of
the possible unique grams that's a lot
of parameters even for unigram model so
the maximum likelihood estimate is going
to assign values of 0 to any unseen
event so that doesn't mean that this
event is impossible so any word that is
not in the training data it's too
possible to appear in the testing data
and if we assign a score of 0 to it that
means that we're going to assign a score
of 0 to the entire sentence and this is
definitely not what we want getting
enough training data is opponent for uni
grads but it's even more of a point for
backgrounds and trigraphs so for diagram
we would expect to have a 1 million
squared so that's a lot of training data
and for trackers who need to have
something on the order of 1 million
cubed which is much larger than any
reasonable corpus that we can train and
even if we had a corpus of this size it
would still have a lot of gaps and we
have to figure out a way to come up with
reasonable estimates for the
probabilities of unicron's backgrounds
and trigrams even if they never appeared
in the training data so this process is
called smoothing or regularization and
the idea behind it is to assign some of
the probability mass to unseen data so a
basic way to think about it is that we
want to model the occurrence of novel
words words that we have not seen in the
training data possibly normal diagrams
so one of the techniques used for
smoothing is so-called laplacian
smoothing or ad1 smoothing in that case
we're going to assume that every word
that we see in the test data was seen at
least once in the training data even if
it was not seen there before sorry if a
word was seen five times we were assumed
that it was seen six times and if a word
was never seen or a student it was seen
exactly once so this way any word has a
chance of getting even a small amount of
probability from the training data set
so there
for buy grams we're going to have an
estimate maximum likelihood estimate for
the probability of word I given word I
sub minus 1 as the actual count of the
by gram WI minus 1 WI plus 1 and then
for normalization purposes we need to
divide this by the total number of
occurrences of WI minus 1 plus V where V
is the size of the vocabulary so by
doing this normalization we can ensure
that the background probability you know
had one smoothing is still a valid
probability and adds up to 1 one problem
with this method is that it clear signs
too much probability mass plants in
events so one in the million is still
significantly larger than what you would
expect for a rare word it's possible to
do something like add K instead of add
one which has a similar problem so in
for most practical purposes add 1 and
add K smoothing is not used because they
don't work well in practice instead what
people do is use advanced molding
techniques I'm not going to go into a
lot of detail on those but I'll give you
one example so the most common example
is good touring which is used to predict
the probabilities of unseen events based
on the probabilities of seen events and
there are other techniques for example
nests and I and class-based engrams and
class-based engrams you collapse
together words that belong to the same
class for example all parts of speech
I'm sorry Oh prepositions or all nouns
or verbs or possibly old days of the
week or persons or numbers into one
class and then use an estimate for any
new member of this category based on the
occurrences of existing members of this
category so let's look at an example
suppose that we have this corpus here it
has 20 words they appear in this order
cat then dog and cat the rabbit and
mouse and so on so as I said we have a
total of 20 words in the corpus and our
goal now is to predict the probability
that the next word is going to be the
word cat well what is our best estimate
well the maximum likelihood estimate
here is very straightforward the word
cat appeared four times out of 20
so that gives us a 20% probability that
cat is going to appear again in the next
iteration so this is straightforward if
we use the simplest maximum likelihood
estimate however what's the probability
the next word is going to be a species
that we have not seen before for example
an elephant so let's do this with some
more examples so the probability of
seeing Mouse is in the next iteration is
2 out of 20 because that's how many
times Mouse appeared in the original
corpus okay now let's see what happens
with elephant this is a little trickier
because one estimate would be 0 out of
20 why because we have never seen it
this would be the maximum likelihood
estimate for elephant however we know
that the probability that the next
animal is unseen so far is actually
greater than zero because even in the
first 20 examples there were many cases
where we saw a new species that we
hadn't seen before so we know that this
is something that can happen we are
likely to see it again in the future
so to be able to allow for elephants to
appear in the next iterations we have to
somehow discount the probabilities of
the animals that have already been seen
so instead of having a maximum
likelihood estimate for Mouse it is 2
out of 20 we're going to have to change
it to something less than 2 out of 20 so
here's where the good curing method
comes into place we're going to take the
actual counts see for any particular
word and sub R is the number of engrams
that occur exactly C times in the corpus
and 0 is the total number of engrams in
the corpus so in our example there were
a total of 20 words and there were for
example for that occurred exactly wants
now we're going to compute the revised
count C star based on those three
parameters and use those as the
good-turing estimates of the probability
so the general formula is that C star is
equal to C plus 1 the number of engrams
that occur exactly C plus 1 times
divided by the number of engrams that
occur exactly C times so let's see how
this works in practice here's our corpus
again whether the counts are the kind of
cat
for the count of dog is three the count
of fish is also three the count of mouse
is two rabbit is also two hamster is two
and then we have Fox equals one turtle
equals one Tiger equals one and lion
equals one so now we can compute the end
sub I values n sub one is four because
there are four animals at the P exactly
once and sub two is equal to three and
sub 3 is equal to 2 and n sub 4 is equal
to one so in each of those cases we have
exact counts of the number of species
that appear certain number of times in
the corpus so this is the numbers that
we came up with so now we have to
compute the revised counts C star so C
star cat used to before and I was going
to be also 4 because of this formula the
estimate for dog is going to be 3 plus 1
which is equal to C plus 1 times 1/2
which is the number of counts 2 plus 1
which is 4 divided by the number of
counts for C which is 2 so the new value
for dog is going to be 3 plus 1 times
1/2 or it's equal to 2 so it's less than
what we had originally the same thing
applies for Mouse because 2 plus 1
multiplied by 2/3 is also equal to 2 and
the same applies for rabbit which is in
the same category as Mouse now we go
down next one down is Fox Fox only
appeared once in the original data set
so the new count is 1 plus 1 times 3/4
or that's six quarters same thing
applies for turtle for tiger and for
Lion so this gives us the estimates of
the counts under good cheering for each
of those species and then we all can
also compute the probability that we'll
see a new species and that is according
to the formula n 1 over n so this is the
number of things that we have seen
exactly once in the corpus so far
divided by the total number of unique
grams so 4 out of 20 is the estimate for
elephant and we still need to normalize
this entire set of counts so that we can
get a probability distribution so this
is at the end of the good curing example
and good-turing is often
for applications in speech processing
and natural language processing so how
else do we do with sparse data the two
other techniques that can be used one is
called back off and another one is
called interpolation let's look at them
in turn so what is back off so back off
is used when a certain Engram model does
not give us enough data so if we are
trying to compute a value for a
background model it's possible that the
counts for a given by a grammar very
small in that case we want to back off
to another model with a lower order and
gram for example from background we can
go to uni Graham and from trigram we can
go to either buy gram or unigram and in
both cases we can also go to a default
value that is not even a unigram is just
a default value for a certain word so we
learn those parameters by using a
training set and also our held-out set
and we come up with values that are
based on the development set the other
technique is called interpolation if the
probability estimate for a trigram for
example sparse we can use a linear
combination of the bigram model the
unigram model combined with a tracker
model so we have a lambda one times the
trigram probability path lambda 2 times
the background probability path lambda 3
times the UNICAMP or bid and this method
works better than back-off and the
lambdas can also be learned based on
approximations with a held out data set
these are people by Stanley Chan and
George Goodman from 1998 that covers
most of the important techniques for
smoothing our back off an interpolation
you can look at this paper for more
details so this concludes the end of the
second segment on language modeling